content/posts/2020-05-07-web-development-notes/index.md, before:

---
title: The Complete Web Developer in 2020
author: Edwin Torres
date: 2020-05-07
hero: ./images/hero.jpg
excerpt: These are my personal notes in the Udemy Course, The Complete Web Developer in 2020.
---

As part of my personal training I've decided to re force my knowledge in web development, so I bought one of the best courses
(in my personal opinion), [the-complete-web-developer-zero-to-mastery 2020](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-developer-zero-to-mastery/) by [Andrei Neagoie](https://www.udemy.com/user/andrei-neagoie/) and here are my notes. 
These notes are just the most relevant parts or resources for me, so I recommend you review the course for more details. 

# 1. How the internet works
 - IP Address
 - ISP: Internet Service Provider
 - DNS: Domain Name Server
 - [Magical blue cable - The submarine cable map](https://www.submarinecablemap.com/)
 - [People think that data is in the cloud, but it’s not. It’s in the ocean](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/03/10/technology/internet-cables-oceans.html). 
 - [Video about how works the submarine cable in Spanish](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1xxZ8r2rRc)

# 2. History of the Web
 - [Tim Berners-Lee](https://www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/) was working at CERN, and then in 1989 created the first approach of Internet [WWW](http://info.cern.ch/hypertext/WWW/TheProject.html)
 - [40 maps that explain internet](https://www.vox.com/a/internet-maps)
 - Some videos of Crash Course Computer Sciences Computer: [Networks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3QhU9jd03a0&list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNlUrzyH5r6jN9ulIgZBpdo&index=29), [Internet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AEaKrq3SpW8&index=30&list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNlUrzyH5r6jN9ulIgZBpdo)  and the [World Wide Web](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=guvsH5OFizE&index=31&list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNlUrzyH5r6jN9ulIgZBpdo) .

# 3. HTML
 - MDN Official resources to review anything https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web
 - Use the Rubber Duck Technique https://rubberduckdebugging.com/
 - [HTMLs Quizzes by w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/html/exercise.asp)
 - [Free codecamp exercises](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-html-and-html5/) 

# 4. CSS
 - An awesome site which explains [how works the font types](https://www.supremo.co.uk/typeterms/)
 - One of the best resources is [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/)  and [CSS Tricks Almanacs](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/) for properties.
 - In this site you will understand [the balance and complement color](https://paletton.com/). 
 - CSS Selectors : start *, class, id, element, element nested, greater than, plus
 - What selectors win out in the cascade depends on? Specificity, Importance, Source order. [Specificity calculator](https://specificity.keegan.st/). 
 - [Game to practice](https://flukeout.github.io/) the specificity concepts.
 - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).
 - [CSS Quizzes by w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_quiz.asp).
 - [CSS Minifier](https://cssminifier.com/) to reduce the Critical Render Path. 
 - [Critical Render Path MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Performance/Critical_rendering_path) and [Critical rendering path explained](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/analyzing-crp?hl=es).
 - Playing with [Froggy for Flexbox](http://flexboxfroggy.com/).
 - [Mastering Transitions and Transforms](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/transitions-and-transforms).
 - With [Can I Use](https://caniuse.com/) we can review if our attributes are supported by browsers.
 - Always [Playground for CSS](https://codepen.io/), Javascript and other Web stuffs with.

# Bootstrap and templates
 - To create landing pages and campaigns with [Mailchimp](https://mailchimp.com/)
 - [Animate CSS](https://daneden.github.io/animate.css/) 
 - [The Creative Tim Templates](https://www.creative-tim.com/)
 - [Mashup Free Templates](http://www.mashup-template.com/)
 - [Bootstrap Templates 1](https://startbootstrap.com/templates/) 
 - [Bootstrap Templates 2](https://mdbootstrap.com/freebies/) 
 - [Templates for startups](https://cruip.com/)

# CSS Grid and Flex
 - Flex is really useful if you have layout with one dimension, CSS Grid is useful when you have layouts with two dimensions (Row, Columns).
 - Despite CSS grid is not 100% supported in all browsers, the support is greater every time. [Can I Use CSS Grid](https://caniuse.com/#feat=css-grid) and [Can I Use Flexbox](https://caniuse.com/#feat=flexbox).
 - [CSS Grid cheat sheet](http://grid.malven.co/). 
 - [Game for CSS Grid](http://cssgridgarden.com/).
 - [CSS Grid Exercise 1 solution](https://codepen.io/codesandtags/pen/ZEbvjrB) 
 - [CSS Grid Exercise 2 solution](https://codepen.io/codesandtags/pen/eYpyPOb?editors=1100) 
 - [Site to get free illustrations](https://undraw.co/illustrations) for your projects.

# Career of Developer
 - [Glassdoor to get Reviews](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/index.htm) and information about companies and salaries in the industry.
 - [Jetbrains research about the Developer Survey 2019](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2019/).
 - [Stackoverflow Developer Survey 2019](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019).
 - [Stackoverflow Trends](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/trends?tags=reactjs%2Cangular%2Cvue.js). 
 - [Github Octoverse statistics](https://octoverse.github.com/).
 - [JavaScript Roadmap](https://hackernoon.com/the-2019-web-developer-roadmap-ab89ac3c380e). 
 - [State of salaries by Hired](https://hired.com/page/state-of-salaries).
 - Become in a Freelance in [Upwork](https://www.upwork.com/).
 - [Zero to Mastery Community](https://zerotomastery.io/community/?utm_source=udemy&utm_medium=coursecontent).
 - [Front-End Learning path in ZTM](https://i.udemycdn.com/redactor/raw/2020-01-18_15-59-49-3ee1a8bf731b133914f2a795867a6238.jpg)
 - [CSS Grid generator](https://cssgrid-generator.netlify.app/) by Sarah Drasner
 
# JavaScript
 - [Eloquent JavaScript Ebook](https://eloquentjavascript.net/) 
 - [You don’t know JavaScript Series](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS) 
 - [Data Structures](https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/Web/JavaScript/Referencia/Objetos_globales/Map): Arrays, Object, Map, Set, WeakMap, WeakSet
 - Playgrounds [Jsbin](https://jsbin.com/) [codepen](https://codepen.io/) 
 - [DOM === document](https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/DOM). 
 - [Document selector and performance](https://gomakethings.com/javascript-selector-performance/) 
 - [DOM event list](https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/Web/Events) 
 - [You might not need jQuery](http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/) 
 - The keyword this represents where the object is inside of.

# Advance JavaScript
 - [BabelJS](https://babeljs.io/) 
 - [Array Explorer with some examples](https://sdras.github.io/array-explorer/) by Sarah Drasner 
 - [Object explorer with some examples](https://sdras.github.io/object-explorer/) by Sarah Drasner 
 - [JavaScript Coercion](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/js-type-coercion-explained-27ba3d9a2839/) and [JavaScript Equality Table](https://dorey.github.io/JavaScript-Equality-Table/).
 - Iterating: Arrays and Strings
 - Enumerating : Objects
 - JavaScript Engine Memory Heap: Limited memory (variables)
 - JavaScript Engine Call Stack: Allocates execution blocks and calls. 
 - To generate a Maximum call stack sized exceed. ```(function a() { a() })();```
 - To crash the browser : ```let drunk = []; while(true) { drunk.push['🍻'] }```
 - Call Stack, Web API, Callback Queue, Event Loop


# Command Line
1. x
2. x

# Development Environment
1. x
2. x

# Git + Github + Open Source
1. x
2. x

# A Day in the life Developer
1. x
2. x

# NPM Scripts
1. x
2. x

# React
1. x
2. x

# HTTP / JSON / AJAX
1. x
2. x

# Backend Introduction
1. x
2. x


# APIs
1. x
2. x

# NodeJS + ExpressJS
1. x
2. x

# Databases
1. x
2. x

# Deployment
1. x
2. x

# Where to go from here?
1. x
2. x

# Github Awesome Profiles

 * [Sindre Sorhus](https://github.com/sindresorhus) 
 * [Sarah Drasner](https://github.com/sdras)


Cheers and keep learning! 🍻

Commit message:

feature: Added Github and contributors to post

content/posts/2020-05-07-web-development-notes/index.md, after:

---
title: The Complete Web Developer in 2020
author: Edwin Torres
date: 2020-05-07
hero: ./images/hero.jpg
excerpt: These are my personal notes in the Udemy Course, The Complete Web Developer in 2020.
---

As part of my personal training I've decided to re force my knowledge in web development, so I bought one of the best courses
(in my personal opinion), [the-complete-web-developer-zero-to-mastery 2020](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-developer-zero-to-mastery/) by [Andrei Neagoie](https://www.udemy.com/user/andrei-neagoie/) and here are my notes. 
These notes are just the most relevant parts or resources for me, so I recommend you review the course for more details. 

# 1. How the internet works
 - IP Address
 - ISP: Internet Service Provider
 - DNS: Domain Name Server
 - [Magical blue cable - The submarine cable map](https://www.submarinecablemap.com/)
 - [People think that data is in the cloud, but it’s not. It’s in the ocean](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/03/10/technology/internet-cables-oceans.html). 
 - [Video about how works the submarine cable in Spanish](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1xxZ8r2rRc)

# 2. History of the Web
 - [Tim Berners-Lee](https://www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/) was working at CERN, and then in 1989 created the first approach of Internet [WWW](http://info.cern.ch/hypertext/WWW/TheProject.html)
 - [40 maps that explain internet](https://www.vox.com/a/internet-maps)
 - Some videos of Crash Course Computer Sciences Computer: [Networks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3QhU9jd03a0&list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNlUrzyH5r6jN9ulIgZBpdo&index=29), [Internet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AEaKrq3SpW8&index=30&list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNlUrzyH5r6jN9ulIgZBpdo)  and the [World Wide Web](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=guvsH5OFizE&index=31&list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNlUrzyH5r6jN9ulIgZBpdo) .

# 3. HTML
 - MDN Official resources to review anything https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web
 - Use the Rubber Duck Technique https://rubberduckdebugging.com/
 - [HTMLs Quizzes by w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/html/exercise.asp)
 - [Free codecamp exercises](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-html-and-html5/) 

# 4. CSS
 - An awesome site which explains [how works the font types](https://www.supremo.co.uk/typeterms/)
 - One of the best resources is [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/)  and [CSS Tricks Almanacs](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/) for properties.
 - In this site you will understand [the balance and complement color](https://paletton.com/). 
 - CSS Selectors : start *, class, id, element, element nested, greater than, plus
 - What selectors win out in the cascade depends on? Specificity, Importance, Source order. [Specificity calculator](https://specificity.keegan.st/). 
 - [Game to practice](https://flukeout.github.io/) the specificity concepts.
 - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).
 - [CSS Quizzes by w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_quiz.asp).
 - [CSS Minifier](https://cssminifier.com/) to reduce the Critical Render Path. 
 - [Critical Render Path MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Performance/Critical_rendering_path) and [Critical rendering path explained](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/analyzing-crp?hl=es).
 - Playing with [Froggy for Flexbox](http://flexboxfroggy.com/).
 - [Mastering Transitions and Transforms](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/transitions-and-transforms).
 - With [Can I Use](https://caniuse.com/) we can review if our attributes are supported by browsers.
 - Always [Playground for CSS](https://codepen.io/), Javascript and other Web stuffs with.

# Bootstrap and templates
 - To create landing pages and campaigns with [Mailchimp](https://mailchimp.com/)
 - [Animate CSS](https://daneden.github.io/animate.css/) 
 - [The Creative Tim Templates](https://www.creative-tim.com/)
 - [Mashup Free Templates](http://www.mashup-template.com/)
 - [Bootstrap Templates 1](https://startbootstrap.com/templates/) 
 - [Bootstrap Templates 2](https://mdbootstrap.com/freebies/) 
 - [Templates for startups](https://cruip.com/)

# CSS Grid and Flex
 - Flex is really useful if you have layout with one dimension, CSS Grid is useful when you have layouts with two dimensions (Row, Columns).
 - Despite CSS grid is not 100% supported in all browsers, the support is greater every time. [Can I Use CSS Grid](https://caniuse.com/#feat=css-grid) and [Can I Use Flexbox](https://caniuse.com/#feat=flexbox).
 - [CSS Grid cheat sheet](http://grid.malven.co/). 
 - [Game for CSS Grid](http://cssgridgarden.com/).
 - [CSS Grid Exercise 1 solution](https://codepen.io/codesandtags/pen/ZEbvjrB) 
 - [CSS Grid Exercise 2 solution](https://codepen.io/codesandtags/pen/eYpyPOb?editors=1100) 
 - [Site to get free illustrations](https://undraw.co/illustrations) for your projects.

# Career of Developer
 - [Glassdoor to get Reviews](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/index.htm) and information about companies and salaries in the industry.
 - [Jetbrains research about the Developer Survey 2019](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2019/).
 - [Stackoverflow Developer Survey 2019](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019).
 - [Stackoverflow Trends](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/trends?tags=reactjs%2Cangular%2Cvue.js). 
 - [Github Octoverse statistics](https://octoverse.github.com/).
 - [JavaScript Roadmap](https://hackernoon.com/the-2019-web-developer-roadmap-ab89ac3c380e). 
 - [State of salaries by Hired](https://hired.com/page/state-of-salaries).
 - Become in a Freelance in [Upwork](https://www.upwork.com/).
 - [Zero to Mastery Community](https://zerotomastery.io/community/?utm_source=udemy&utm_medium=coursecontent).
 - [Front-End Learning path in ZTM](https://i.udemycdn.com/redactor/raw/2020-01-18_15-59-49-3ee1a8bf731b133914f2a795867a6238.jpg)
 - [CSS Grid generator](https://cssgrid-generator.netlify.app/) by Sarah Drasner
 
# JavaScript
 - [Eloquent JavaScript Ebook](https://eloquentjavascript.net/) 
 - [You don’t know JavaScript Series](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS)
 - [JavaScript modern tutorial](https://javascript.info/) 
 - [Data Structures](https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/Web/JavaScript/Referencia/Objetos_globales/Map): Arrays, Object, Map, Set, WeakMap, WeakSet
 - Playgrounds [Jsbin](https://jsbin.com/) [codepen](https://codepen.io/) 
 - [DOM === document](https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/DOM). 
 - [Document selector and performance](https://gomakethings.com/javascript-selector-performance/) 
 - [DOM event list](https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/Web/Events) 
 - [You might not need jQuery](http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/) 
 - The keyword this represents where the object is inside of.

# Advance JavaScript
 - [BabelJS](https://babeljs.io/) 
 - [Array Explorer with some examples](https://sdras.github.io/array-explorer/) by Sarah Drasner 
 - [Object explorer with some examples](https://sdras.github.io/object-explorer/) by Sarah Drasner 
 - [JavaScript Coercion](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/js-type-coercion-explained-27ba3d9a2839/) and [JavaScript Equality Table](https://dorey.github.io/JavaScript-Equality-Table/).
 - Iterating: Arrays and Strings
 - Enumerating : Objects
 - JavaScript Engine Memory Heap: Limited
  memory (variables)
 - JavaScript Engine Call Stack: Allocates execution blocks and calls. 
 - To generate a Maximum call stack sized exceed. ```(function a() { a() })();```
 - To crash the browser : ```let drunk = []; while(true) { drunk.push['🍻'] }```
 - Call Stack, Web API, Callback Queue, Event Loop

# Command Line
 - [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/)
 - [Nice article to setup Oh My Zsh](https://medium.com/@ivanaugustobd/your-terminal-can-be-much-much-more-productive-5256424658e8)
 - [Some issues and solutions with fonts in Oh My Zsh](https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k/issues/157)

# Git + Github + Open Source
 - [Pull Request](https://github.com/zero-to-mastery/start-here-guidelines/pull/5108#issuecomment-625023782) to become in contributor for ZTM in Github organization.
 - [Pull Request](https://github.com/zero-to-mastery/ZtM-Job-Board/pull/1100) to add my profile in the ZTM Board Job.
 - [Zero To Mastery Job Board](https://zero-to-mastery.github.io/ZtM-Job-Board/). 

# A Day in the life Developer
1. x
2. x

# NPM Scripts
1. x
2. x

# React
1. x
2. x

# HTTP / JSON / AJAX
1. x
2. x

# Backend Introduction
1. x
2. x


# APIs
1. x
2. x

# NodeJS + ExpressJS
1. x
2. x

# Databases
1. x
2. x

# Deployment
1. x
2. x

# Where to go from here?
1. x
2. x

# Github Awesome Profiles

 * [Sindre Sorhus](https://github.com/sindresorhus) 
 * [Sarah Drasner](https://github.com/sdras)
 * [Andrei Neagoie](https://github.com/aneagoie)


Cheers and keep learning! 🍻
