content/posts/2020-05-02-learning-to-learn/index.md, before:

---
title: Learning to learn
author: Edwin Torres
date: 2020-05-01
hero: ./images/hero.jpg
excerpt: These are my personal notes in the Udemy Course, Learning to Learn by Andrei Neagogie.
---

Recently I've started a huge personal challenge that I will describe with more details in the next months, 
however a really critical part of this challenge is, **How can I learn faster?**. Well, I've bought 
a really nice course in Udemy, [Learning to learn](https://www.udemy.com/course/learning-to-learn-efficient-learning-zero-to-mastery/) 
by [Andrei Neagoie](https://www.udemy.com/user/andrei-neagoie/) and these are my notes.

Also I want to mention that I love the productivity stuffs, and I admire people like 
[Bill Gates](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Gates), and [Tim Ferris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Ferriss). 

# The principles

1. The [method of Loci](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_of_loci) about memory enhacement.  
    - https://deck.of.cards/
2. Learning vs Winning to the system, by Paul Grahan
    - http://paulgraham.com/lesson.html
3. What is success?. This is subjective meaning, however it can be achieved with the next characteristics.
    - Drive 
    - Persistence
    - Going a good learner 
4. The obstacle & The dip
    1. [Seth Godin](https://www.sethgodin.com/#books-courses-and-more)
    2. Sometimes we have to know when to turn around and pick the right path in order to use our resources efficiently.
5. Compound learning
    1. The principle behind is: You don’t have to dedicate many hours one day to learning something, you need instead to learning at least 20 - 30 minutes per day, everyday to compound the learning in your mind.
    2. Improve by 1% a day, and in 70 days you’re twice a good. - Alan Wiss P.h D
    3. https://www.calculatorsoup.com/calculators/financial/compound-interest-calculator.php
    4. https://www.bankrate.com/calculators/savings/compound-savings-calculator-tool.aspx
6. Failures don’t count on you
    1. Every time you make a mistake, any time you fail you are learning, it gives you feedback on why you should do next time.
7. Choice vs Chore
    1. Chores are temporary and they won’t last long, but if you start to shift your focus and realize that learning is a choice you can not do anything today
8. It’s all in the frame.
    1. Not everything in life is objective, rather than is subjective and everything depends of perspective, so we can reframe that.
    2. Shift your focus, shift your perspective on you can control, instead of you can not control.
9. Pareto principle
    1. Also know as the 80/20 rule. The law of vital few.
    2. 80 percent of sales comes from 20 percent of clients.
    3. 80 percent of code comes from 20 percent of programmers.
    4. It’s about eliminating things.
    5. Composition by Pietro monad. $50 Million Dollars
    6. Is this the best use of my time?
10. Skill Staking
    - Mastering by [Robert Greene](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Robert-Greene/dp/014312417X) says there are 3 keys. 
        1. Curiosity
        2. Value of learning
        3. Staking your skills in different unique ways.
    - For example, if you are a programmer and you combine your programming skills with business skills, or communication skills you will be more valuable.
    - It’s not about being the greatest in one thing, you just need to be pretty good at list of useful skills that when combined, make you truly one of a kind.
11. Happiness Factors
    - To be an efficient learner, you need to enjoy what you’re doing to learning.
    - What are the things that make you happy in your life?
    - Create monitor factors and monitor them.
12. Productivity time
    - What is your most productivity time? Morning ? Night ?
    - Every person is different and your job is to figure out what your productivity times are.
12. Self learning paradigm
    1. The core of self learning, is this idea of personal autonomy to become a self learner and efficient learner.
    2. This is a choice you have to make, based on your mainly motivation.    
    

# The lies

# The Science

# The Techniques

# Lifelong Learning

Commit message:

feat: Published the lies in the learning to learn post

content/posts/2020-05-02-learning-to-learn/index.md, after:

---
title: Learning to learn
author: Edwin Torres
date: 2020-05-01
hero: ./images/hero.jpg
excerpt: These are my personal notes in the Udemy Course, Learning to Learn by Andrei Neagogie.
---

Recently I've started a huge personal challenge that I will describe with more details in the next months, 
however a really critical part of this challenge is, **How can I learn faster?**. Well, I've bought 
a really nice course in Udemy, [Learning to learn](https://www.udemy.com/course/learning-to-learn-efficient-learning-zero-to-mastery/) 
by [Andrei Neagoie](https://www.udemy.com/user/andrei-neagoie/) and these are my notes.

Also I want to mention that I love the productivity stuffs, and I admire people like 
[Bill Gates](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Gates), and [Tim Ferris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Ferriss). 

# The principles

1. The [method of Loci](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_of_loci) about memory enhacement.  
    - https://deck.of.cards/
2. Learning vs Winning to the system, by Paul Grahan
    - http://paulgraham.com/lesson.html
3. What is success?. This is subjective meaning, however it can be achieved with the next characteristics.
    - Drive 
    - Persistence
    - Going a good learner 
4. The obstacle & The dip
    1. [Seth Godin](https://www.sethgodin.com/#books-courses-and-more)
    2. Sometimes we have to know when to turn around and pick the right path in order to use our resources efficiently.
5. Compound learning
    1. The principle behind is: You don’t have to dedicate many hours one day to learning something, you need instead to learning at least 20 - 30 minutes per day, everyday to compound the learning in your mind.
    2. Improve by 1% a day, and in 70 days you’re twice a good. - Alan Wiss P.h D
    3. https://www.calculatorsoup.com/calculators/financial/compound-interest-calculator.php
    4. https://www.bankrate.com/calculators/savings/compound-savings-calculator-tool.aspx
6. Failures don’t count on you
    1. Every time you make a mistake, any time you fail you are learning, it gives you feedback on why you should do next time.
7. Choice vs Chore
    1. Chores are temporary and they won’t last long, but if you start to shift your focus and realize that learning is a choice you can not do anything today
8. It’s all in the frame.
    1. Not everything in life is objective, rather than is subjective and everything depends of perspective, so we can reframe that.
    2. Shift your focus, shift your perspective on you can control, instead of you can not control.
9. Pareto principle
    1. Also know as the 80/20 rule. The law of vital few.
    2. 80 percent of sales comes from 20 percent of clients.
    3. 80 percent of code comes from 20 percent of programmers.
    4. It’s about eliminating things.
    5. Composition by Pietro monad. $50 Million Dollars
    6. Is this the best use of my time?
10. Skill Staking
    - Mastering by [Robert Greene](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Robert-Greene/dp/014312417X) says there are 3 keys. 
        1. Curiosity
        2. Value of learning
        3. Staking your skills in different unique ways.
    - For example, if you are a programmer and you combine your programming skills with business skills, or communication skills you will be more valuable.
    - It’s not about being the greatest in one thing, you just need to be pretty good at list of useful skills that when combined, make you truly one of a kind.
11. Happiness Factors
    - To be an efficient learner, you need to enjoy what you’re doing to learning.
    - What are the things that make you happy in your life?
    - Create monitor factors and monitor them.
12. Productivity time
    - What is your most productivity time? Morning ? Night ?
    - Every person is different and your job is to figure out what your productivity times are.
12. Self learning paradigm
    1. The core of self learning, is this idea of personal autonomy to become a self learner and efficient learner.
    2. This is a choice you have to make, based on your mainly motivation.    
    

# The lies

There are a couple of lies in the world and the learning process you need to know.

1. Follow your passion
    - Become [so good they can't ignore you](https://www.amazon.es/Good-They-Cant-Ignore-You/dp/1455509124) by Carl Newport.
    - Passion is simple overrated, many people who actually love what they do don’t have a passion for it.
    - More than passion you need creativity, control and impact. Learning is a craft and you can learn to love the process.
2. You can avoid risk
    - Risk is part of the process, and you have to be able to tolerate and enjoy taking risk.
    - If you really want to be good, you need to stretch your boundaries, and people who don’t take risks in their life, are going to be left behind by those that take risk. 
3. Trust this one person
    - Don’t follow one single person and think that everything he or she says is true, and is right for us.
    - Each person give advices based on the experiences in their life.
    - Create your option based on different opinions and your own experiences, because there can be charlatans.
    - The people who tell you that they know everything are often the ones that know the least.
4. 10.000 hours rule
    - It’s a [popular rule by Malcom Gladwell](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2019/aug/21/practice-does-not-always-make-perfect-violinists-10000-hour-rule), however is not totally true.
    - The more you practice the better you get, but it means that you won’t need at least 10.000 hours to achieve it.
    - Remember there are a lot of variables that makes difference in this topic ( Genetic, Environment, Country). And stay focus is more relevant.

# The Pillars

# The Science

# The Techniques

# Lifelong Learning
